Hello and I'd like to
talk to you about how
to use the snipping tool
to do a screen capture.
There are other ways to do this,
but the easiest way is
the built-in screen tool, and I'm doing
this on Windows 8.
The snipping tool exists on earlier
versions of Windows as well, and so the
gestures and the UI might look a little
different, but it's about the same.
You'll find the snipping tool.
So I'm going to hit the Windows icon
and I'm going to type the s-n, and it
brings up the snipping tool.
And so here I go, and it's giving me this
option to say snipping tool.
And I'd like to say, I'm going to
do a new Windows snip.
And now it's kind of graying out the
screen and following me around
with this red line.
And I click on this and it has made a copy
of that, of that window.
Now I'm, this is, snipping tool
is just a snipping tool.
That window still exists but this is now,
well I didn't want to do that.
This is now just a, a drawing tool that's
So, and so here you are.
We could save this.
But the other thing you can do,
and this is
in the more recent snipping tools,
is you can make changes.
So let's say for example that
you didn't want to
show your name, and your name
was in this path.
And so I will just go and scribble my name
out, like with this little scribbling tool.
Pretty sweet, huh?
So I scribbled my name out, and I just
happened to have
my name in it and so I didn't
want to put it in.
So now I'm going to do File > Save As.
And of course find somewhere, I'm going to
put this
on my desktop and I'm going to call it
notepad.png.
Now you don't have to put the suffix of
.png or JPEG but
it's good if you're moving files between
systems to put these suffixes on.
You know, Windows would know that this is a
.png file,
but .png is a way to nicely tell other
systems when you're moving it around
that it's a .png file,
or if you send it as an email or
whatever.
So I save it, I'm saving it on my desktop.
And there we go.
So it's, it's hiding the .png, but I can
look to make sure
the png is really there, and so there it
is, it's a .png.
So there's a file, and away we go.
Okay?
So there's the snipping tool. If I close
this window, and I click on Notepad,
[SOUND] you will see that it's got the
little scribbling thing.
Thank you for that.
Okay?
So there you go.
That's how to do a real simple
snipping tool.